Let's complicate things even more.
All right, so how do you write a iterator?
Well, it's just a function that
returns a certain type of object, so
you can already do it.
We all know how to write a function
that returns an object, and
you can write a complicated function
that's like, if this is fun, and
then return, that it's not done, and then
if it is done, then return done, true.
And essentially, that's totally
possible without generators.
But generators are a particular
type of special function,
they have their own keyword,
it's function*.
So when I said before that,
functions run to completion,
asterisk, it literally meant asterisk.
Because generator functions,
which you declare basically the same
way you do a regular function, but
with a little star after the word
function, are really special.
They have their own special keyword yield,
which is similar to return,
except return is like,
and we're done forever, adieu,
goodbye forever, adios.
And yield is a little bit more like, okay,
here's your value output but,
au revior, hasta la vista,
and not goodbye forever,
we'll see you next time, see you soon.
And so, for example, in a function body,
when you have the word return,
and then any other stuff after that,
you've got a whole bunch of
useless code that's never gonna run,
right, unreachable code.
Yield is just like, let's put a pin in it.
And what this does is, instead of the
function on the call stack having to run
through its whole thing, the generator
function can pop off the call stack,
and then at some later point,
resume execution right where it left off.
And there is a whole bunch
more to say about generators,
I think they're super cool.
They're not extremely widely used,
even though I think they
could be in JavaScript.
But one thing that they are super, super,
super useful for,
is implementing iterables,
because a generator qualifies
according to both protocols.
The iterator protocol, it is an iterator,
meaning that you can call .next on it and
get out the next value that
was yielded in the function.
And it's also an iterable,
meaning that you can
iterate over the values
that it spits out, essentially.
You can treat it like as if it
were an array of those values or
any other iterable of those values.
So this is all to say,
generators, function*,
are a great easy way to write
that specific type of iterator
function that you need to be the value
returned by symbol .iterator.
Okay, now, where are we gonna go to
read way more about all of this later,
so that we can really get clear on
all these different symbols and
these different protocols and
so on and so forth?
>> MDN.
>> MDN, of course, and I also, if you're
curious, I have a couple other talks and
things about iterators and generators.
But for now,
let's just look at a very relevant,
very professional example in this
professional JavaScript course.
Okay, I have a generator
that's called dogerator.
And it essentially is gonna
spit out different strings,
randomly selected, not at all for
compliance with a certain meme grammar.
[LAUGH] So
yield is sort similar to return, right?
We notice the differences between
dogerator and a regular function is,
we've got the star on the function and
we've got yield instead of return,
and their stuff after the yield,
and then we have a return.
So generators are functions,
they can return stuff,
although that's not really
what they're super useful for.
Yield works much the same way as return,
except that the generator can later
be picked up and resume running.
So for example,
if I create an object called meme, and
this object literally has
nothing else in it of its own.
[LAUGH] Other than I assign
a value to symbol .iterator,
which is this very special
property that then JavaScript
knows what to do with in the context
of a for of loop, let's say.
And I give the value of that
iterator as the generator function,
which yields, Strings, a few of them.
Now, I can use meme in a for of loop.
So I can say for (;et phrase of meme) and
hopefully get out the extremely useful,
Output that we're gonna see here.
So iterator much generate, wow, undefined.
So what's happening here?
First, we got the so
iterator yielded out, and
that was essentially the value of calling,
dogerator.next, but now,
it's not working because,
all right, in any case,
this is essentially the same thing as,
Asking it one at a time for
the next value.
for of is doing this under the hood for
us.
It is calling these .next methods, it's
looking up the iterator from the symbol.
It's following all of that,
all of those pointers to find
the right function which has
the right type of return value,
which returns the right type of objects
that conform with this iteration protocol.
So there's kind of a lot of magic
happening under the hood, and
it's way more complex than just calling
.map on the underlying object, right?
But the nice part about that is,
once we wrap our heads
around being able to quickly define
iterators as generators, let's say.
And being able to assign
whatever objects we want a symbol
iterator property with
a particular type of value,
we have now custom iterables for
whatever we want.
So you wanna make a meme collection,
no problem, slapping iterator on it.
You want to make a recommended
Frontend Masters
courses collection that you can
put in a for of loop, have at it.
And this is essentially why both
the array of our engines and
the HTML collection were
able to be used in a for
of loop,
is because they implement this protocol.
Now, that is all to say,
are we gonna be implementing custom
iterables every day in our
life as JavaScript developers?
I don't know too many who are.
But it is,
I think very important to understand,
how we can expose a more convenient
interface for, let's say,
some very complex piece of data that
our particular code base needs to
pass around and people need to be able to
get stuff out of it and what have you.
How can we make it easier
to work with that data,
instead of having to remember some
arcane method name that's like for
each but not every single one,
maybe just every third one?
Whatever you wanna do in your fancy,
complex piece of data that other
people wanna be able to go through,
you can implement that for
your users or yourself,
your future self,
[LAUGH] with these iteration protocols.